TASK 2 (SQL)

Question 1
Design a cinema booking system.
Think how you would approach the problem and what are potential ways of solving it?


You do not need to write actual code, but describe the high-level approach:
·        Draw a list of key requirements
·        What are your main considerations?
·        What would be your common or biggest problems?
·        What components or tools would you potentially use?
·        You are welcome to draw a diagram (a very simple one) for the process flow to explain how  it is going to work. 


Key Requirements:
- user interface 
- search feature -search by title, genre, language etc.
- details of cinemas - where, how to get there etc
- seat choice - visual diagram of available seats
- cancellation
- notifications - new film showing, health and safety announcements (eg covid etc)
- log in for customer
- database for storing data
- takes payment for booking (check with owner to see how this is to implemented)
- discounts or loyalty etc?
- backend to connect database and user
- security of data 
- storage of data
- secure payment system
- generates ticket
- access to help for customer


Main Considerations:
cost
security - payments, customer data etc
easy to use for customer
speed of use for customer
volume of bookings



common problems:
double booking
bugs and errors in program
Back up - when, how much?
traffic - how many people using interface at a time
disability access
last minute changes in booking
double booking - over booking
No-shows
Bad user interface - difficult to use
Booking process takes too long
Cost unclear for user
compatibility with different devices, operating systems.
maintenance - keeping system running, updating etc
errors and bugs - booking system crashing
Data storage issues, loosing data etc
Security - keeping data safe
problems with payment
problems with 


Tools:
visual project management tool for example scrum board(kanban board)
Visual requirements document for tables in SQL
Blueprint for system
job scheduling software ofr team
User interface design system - eg wireframe
SQL or another database
Testing tools
Design patterns


Simple Process flow:

customer searches on front page (possibly by film, cinema, local cinema, genre etc)

computer generates response

customer specifies when/where  they want to see film

seat available?

no - offer another search or other options

Yes - customer login or create new acc.

customer details found or completed

available seats shown on diagram

customer selects seats

payment taken

coupon/discount/loyalty options

payment confirmed

ticket generated and dispensed

ticket verified at cinema when customer comes to view film

option for support/help if something goes wrong at every step of process.

